US-295 Update Zilliqa 2 Docs (#214)
Zilliqa/zilliqa-developer: docs/zq2/index.md

keywords: []
---

# Zilliqa 2: An Overview

## Introduction

Zilliqa 2 is the next generation of the Zilliqa blockchain. It represents a fundamental overhaul of Zilliqa's blockchain node, introducing substantial improvements in network performance and utility while preserving all the features of the current Zilliqa version, including full EVM (Ethereum Virtual Machine) compatibility.

It is currently under development, so not yet stable or complete, feel free to create an issue in [GitHub](https://github.com/Zilliqa/zq2) when you find problems.

## Key Enhancements in Zilliqa 2

Zilliqa 2 brings forth several enhancements to elevate its performance and scalability:

- **Faster Finality**: Introducing a new consensus algorithm (Fast-HotStuff) for quicker transaction confirmations.

- **Improved Scalability and Sharding**: The upgrade empowers developers with an enhanced sharding system, providing the flexibility to create custom shards with programmable security parameters.

- **Developer-Focused Design**: Prioritizing an enhanced developer experience, Zilliqa 2.0 aims to simplify blockchain development and streamline user transactions.

> - **Programmable Model and EVM Compatibility**: The upgrade embraces a programmer's model heavily based on EVM, allowing smart contracts to modify blockchain behavior without altering underlying code. Full support for both Scilla and EVM is retained.

Reviewer: I think its a bit vague and unclear what exactly this means. The point about EVM + Scilla compatibility is good, but I'm less sure about "programmable model" / "programmer's model based on EVM"?

Author: Will remove the reference to "programmable model"

> - **Sharding System with Privacy Features**: Zilliqa 2.0's sharding system supports programmable decentralization, enabling customization of shards for specific use cases. Each shard includes an encryption key, ensuring privacy by encrypting block data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Sharding System with Privacy Features**: Zilliqa 2.0's sharding system supports programmable decentralization, enabling customization of shards for specific use cases. Each shard may include an encryption key, ensuring privacy by encrypting block data.
```

## Compatibility and Transition

In terms of compatibility and transition:

- **Existing ZIL and dApps**: Zilliqa 2 ensures a seamless transition by maintaining compatibility with existing Zilliqa and EVM APIs. Users can rest assured that their decentralized applications (dApps) will continue to function normally, with the state of the chain remaining unchanged.

- **Deployment and Stability**: The current phase involves a heavily in-development devnet that aligns with the latest code changes. Users should anticipate some instability and occasional state resets. As Zilliqa 2 matures, the plan is to deploy additional networks offering enhanced stability.

> ## Deployment and Stability

Reviewer: Remove this section since it repeats the above bullet point?

| -------------------- | ------------ | ----------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Zilliqa 2 Devnet** | 33469        | <https://api.zq2-devnet.zilstg.dev> | <https://explorer.zq2-devnet.zilstg.dev> | <https://faucet.zq2-devnet.zilstg.dev> | Active unstable development network. Expect frequent updates, bugs and state resets. |

## Release Timeline

The release timeline for Zilliqa 2 is contingent on development progress and rigorous testing. Providing an exact date can be challenging due to these variables. To stay abreast of developments and receive timely updates on the release schedule:

- Monitor the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Zilliqa/zq2)
- Follow Zilliqa on social media platforms for announcements and progress reports.

For further details and the latest information, stay connected with the Zilliqa community and official channels.

> For more information please refer to the [FAQ](faq.md).

Reviewer: Should we delete the FAQ since this page now covers the same points?

Author: Good idea, i will remove it for now. we could bring it back later on if we have more questions to answer
